How to import big DBs (#1750)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/dev/tutorials-and-howtos/howtos/howto-import-big-databases-between-environments.md

---
title: "HowTo: Import big databases between environments"
description: Learn how you can relatively quickly import big data between your environments
last_updated: April 5, 2023
template: howto-guide-template
---

Suppose you have two testing environments, and you need to migrate a large amount of data from one environment to another to perform different tests with the same data. If you have little data, you can export by running the `mysqldump` command on the local machine. However, for large amounts of data, this method can be slow due to long waiting time and VPN connection issues. In this case, to import the data between the environments faster, you can run the `mysqldump` command on the Jenkins instance and upload the dump file to AWS S3. Here's how to do it:

> 1. Go the the Jenkins instance of the environment from where you want to import the data. 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
1. Go to the Jenkins instance of the environment from where you want to import the data. 
```

> 2. Export the database as a compressed file and upload it to an S3 bucket using the following command:

Reviewer: We can omit this part
```suggestion
2. Export the database as a compressed file and upload it to an S3 bucket:
```

```php
mysqldump -h $SPRYKER_DB_HOST -u $SPRYKER_DB_ROOT_USERNAME -p $SPRYKER_DB_PASSWORD $SPRYKER_DB_DATABASE | gzip | aws s3 cp - s3://your_bucket_name/backup.$(date +"%Y-%m-%d__%H-%M-%S").sql.gz
```

![mysqldump-command-in-jenkins](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/scos/dev/tutorials-and-howtos/howtos/howto-import-big-databases-between-environments/mysqldump-command-in-jenkins.png)

3. Monitor the command execution until it finishes. Once it's finished, go to AWS and download the dump file to the necessary environment. Since the S3 bucket is shared, the dump file is accessible from any of your environments.

> 4. To recover the compressed dump file, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Recover the compressed dump file:
```

```php
zcat your_database_dump.sql.gz | mysql -u $SPRYKER_DB_ROOT_USERNAME -p $SPRYKER_DB_PASSWORD $SPRYKER_DB_DATABASE
```

{% info_block infoBox "Clean up old dump files" %}

> If you run the command from step 2 multiple times, this creates multiple dump files in the S3 bucket. To avoid cluttering the bucket with old backup files, periodically clean up the S3 bucket from old dump files.

Reviewer: Optional suggestion
```suggestion
Running the command from step 2 multiple times creates multiple dump files in the S3 bucket. To avoid cluttering the bucket with old backup files, periodically clean up the S3 bucket from old dump files.
```

Author: I'd prefer leaving the original version to avoid ambiguity - so they don't think that they will definitely run the command several times.

{% endinfo_block %}

> With this approach, you can efficiently import large databases between environments, since you are downloading the dump file not to your local machine, but to the machine that is in the same network as the database. Additionally, compressing the dump file speeds up the upload process, reducing the overall time it takes to import the data.

Reviewer: small fix
```suggestion
With this approach, you can efficiently import large databases between environments since you are downloading the dump file not to your local machine but to the machine in the same network as the database. Additionally, compressing the dump file speeds up the upload process, reducing the overall time it takes to import the data.
```

---
title: "HowTo: Import big databases between environments"
description: Learn how you can relatively quickly import big data between your environments
last_updated: April 5, 2023
template: howto-guide-template
---

> Suppose you have two testing environments, and you need to migrate a large amount of data from one environment to another to perform different tests with the same data. If you have little data, you can export it using the `mysqldump` command. However, for large amounts of data, this method can be slow due to long waiting time and VPN connection issues. In this case, you can use AWS S3 to efficiently import the data between the environments. Here's how to do it:

Reviewer 2: We use `mysqldump` command for both large and small data. The difference here is where we run this command.

If the data set is small, then we can run this command on our local machine.
If the data set is large, then we have to run this command on Jenkins instance, in AWS, and upload it to S3.

Author: fixed this line

1. Go the the Jenkins instance of the environment from where you want to import the data. 
2. Export the database as a compressed file and upload it to an S3 bucket using the following command:

```php
mysqldump -h $SPRYKER_DB_HOST -u $SPRYKER_DB_ROOT_USERNAME -p $SPRYKER_DB_PASSWORD $SPRYKER_DB_DATABASE | gzip | aws s3 cp - s3://your_bucket_name/backup.$(date +"%Y-%m-%d__%H-%M-%S").sql.gz
```

![mysqldump-command-in-jenkins](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/scos/dev/tutorials-and-howtos/howtos/howto-import-big-databases-between-environments/mysqldump-command-in-jenkins.png)

3. Monitor the command execution until it finishes. Once it's finished, go to AWS and download the dump file to the necessary environment. Since the S3 bucket is shared, the dump file is accessible from any of your environments.
4. To recover the dump file, run the following command:

```php

> mysql -u $SPRYKER_DB_ROOT_USERNAME -p $SPRYKER_DB_PASSWORD $SPRYKER_DB_DATABASE < dumpfile.sql.gz

Reviewer 2: We can use the following command to recover the backup.
```
zcat your_database_dump.sql.gz | mysql -u $SPRYKER_DB_ROOT_USERNAME -p $SPRYKER_DB_PASSWORD $SPRYKER_DB_DATABASE
```

If the backup is compressed, then we need to uncompress it first.

Author: I've updated this step
